id
en-baked-fish-on-potato

category
main-courses

title
Baked Fish on Potato Gratin

prepTime
45

servings
4

effortLevel
medium

image
images/main-courses/baked-fish-on-potato.jpg

ingredients
white fish fillets skinless 2cm thick - 4 x 160 g
cooking/kosher salt - 1/2 tsp
black pepper - 1/4 tsp
unsalted butter - 3 Tbsp (50 g)
large leeks white and pale green part only - 2 pcs
garlic cloves minced - 3 pcs
medium starchy potatoes peeled - 2 pcs (250 g each)
cooking/kosher salt - 3/4 tsp
black pepper - 1/2 tsp
dry white wine - 1/2 cup
vegetable stock/broth low sodium - 1/2 cup
thickened/heavy cream - 1 cup
panko breadcrumbs - 3/4 cup
extra virgin olive oil - 2 Tbsp
parmesan finely shredded - 1/4 cup

instructions
Preheat the oven to 180°C/350°F (160°C fan) with a shelf in the middle.
Potatoes: Cut the potatoes into quarters, then sliced 4mm thick. Place cut potato in a large bowl of water (prevents from going brown, removes excess starch so it cooks quicker). Drain before use.
Crunchy topping: Mix panko and olive oil in a bowl. Then stir in parmesan.
Season fish: Sprinkle salt and pepper on both sides of the fish fillets. Set aside.
Sauté: Melt butter in a large oven-proof skillet (30cm) over high heat until foamy. Add leek and garlic, then cook for 3 minutes.
Sauté potatoes: Add potato, salt and pepper. Cook for 6 minutes, stirring regularly. The potatoes should be half cooked at this stage.
Reduce wine and stock: Pour in white wine. Simmer rapidly until it is mostly evaporated (about 1 minute). Pour in stock, then simmer for 1 1/2 minutes or until reduced by half.
Top with fish: Turn the stove off. Place fish on top of the potatoes, presentation side up. Pour cream all over, aiming for full coverage. Sprinkle with panko breadcrumbs.
Bake for 30 minutes.
Colour topping: Switch to the oven grill (broiler) on high and move the skillet up to the top shelf. Grill/broil 4 minutes or until golden.
Rest: Remove and rest for 5 minutes, then serve! Eat the fish and gratin together with each mouthful for maximum eating pleasure!

personalNotes


keywords
medium, fish, oven-baked, potatoes, cooking-cream, olive-oil

dateAdded
2025-11-17